the Israeli Palestinian conflict has for
decades simmered at the heart of the
United Nations which churned out
countless resolutions and speeches
seemingly delivering little peace the
conflict dates back to 1947 when the UN
General Assembly proposed the partition
of Palestine into Arab and Jewish States
and leave Jerusalem as an international
City overseen by un trustee ship a
Palestinian state was never established
but a year later the state of Israel was
created after Zionist forces expelled at
least
750,000 Palestinians from their homes
and captured 78% of historic
Palestine the UN then established an
agency to deal with the resulting
Refugee crisis while supporting their
right to return but in 1967 Israel
captured and occupied the entire
territory of historic Palestine an
occupation that continues to this day
despite un resolu resolutions calling it
illegal under international law with
each passing decade as Israel's
occupation became more entrenched doubts
increase over the un's ability to
realize a two-state solution between
Israel and Palestine the problem of
course uh with the un uh approach in
this period is that it it appears to be
doing what I call managing the occupied
Palestinian territory through a
humanitarian approach rather than
looking at it and analys and analyzing
it through an an emancipatory sort of
framework as new countries joined the UN
the Palestinian issue became a
significant point of contention between
the security Council and the general
assembly from the beginning the general
assembly had uh individual rights and
self-determination rights front and
center that whole agenda and structure
has been defeated at the security
Council again and again again and again
that's because the power of imbalance
between the two governing un
bodies all member states in the general
assembly have an equal vote but it only
takes one among the five permanent
members of the security Council to
defeat any resolution with a veto and
the United States has used that veto
power more than 30 times to Shield
Israel against un action now the general
assembly has put the issue of Israel's
illegal occupation before the un's
highest court for its advice but any
opinion will be non- biding so it's
unclear if it will have any effect Axel
zovich
alaz make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from
alaza